205 update rxnorm vignette for h4h users (#215)
GEMINI-Medicine/Rgemini: vignettes/pharmacy_mapping_vignette.rmd

---

> title: "GEMINI Rxnorm and Pharmacy Mapping"

Reviewer: Just removing "GEMINI" here to prevent the warning when knitting that complains about the title being different from `VignetteIndexEntry`:
```suggestion
title: "Rxnorm and Pharmacy Mapping"
```

knitr::opts_chunk$set(collapse = T, comment = "#>", message = FALSE, warning = FALSE)
options(tibble.print_min = 4, tibble.print_max = 4, rmarkdown.html_vignette.check_title = FALSE)

devtools::load_all(getwd())

replace_last <- function(x, digits = 2) {
  n <- nchar(x)
  truncated <- ifelse(n > 3, paste0(substr(x, 1, n - digits), ".."), "...")
  return(truncated)
}
convert_to_sequence <- function(x) {
  as.integer(factor(x, levels = unique(x)))
}
```

*  *  *  *

# Introduction

GEMINI receives raw pharmacy tables from participating sites. The GEMINI team developed the RxNorm function (`rxnorm_query`) to identify drugs of interest easier and faster, by using the RxNorm API from the National Library of Medicine. Please refer to our publication for details at [GEMINI-RxNorm](https://academic.oup.com/jamiaopen/article/6/3/ooad062/7239332).

Our team also developed a function (`prepare_pharm_for_validation`) to subsequently process the matches identified by the RxNorm function, preparing them for validation by a Subject Matter Expert (SME), and a function (`add_validated_pharm_map`) to append the SME-validated matches into GEMINI's Pharmacy Master Mapping file.

> The series of functions is designed to support an analyst's workflow in identifying orders for specific drug(s) of interest from the GEMINI pharmacy data table. This vignette provides general guidelines for effectively using these functions. Analysts are encouraged to consult the function documentations for more detailed information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The series of functions is designed to support an analyst's workflow in identifying orders for specific drug(s) of interest from the GEMINI pharmacy data table. This vignette provides general guidelines for effectively using these functions. Analysts are encouraged to consult the function documentation for more detailed information.
```

> The series of functions is designed to support an analyst's workflow in identifying orders for specific drug(s) of interest from the GEMINI pharmacy data table. This vignette provides general guidelines for effectively using these functions. Analysts are encouraged to consult the function documentations for more detailed information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The series of functions is designed to support an analyst's workflow in identifying orders for specific drug(s) of interest from the GEMINI pharmacy data table. This vignette provides general guidelines for effectively using these functions. Analysts are encouraged to consult the function documentations for more detailed information.

Please note that this workflow is only supported for the following database versions:
- GEMINI staff: `drm_cleandb_v3_1_0` or newer 
- H4H users: `gemini_h4h_template_v5_0_0` or newer
```

## Design Overview
```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "100%", fig.align = "left", fig.cap="<div style='color:grey; font-size:12px; margin: 0px 0px 0px 20px'>Input-Output Flow Diagram of Three Pharmacy Functions. Items in orange denote steps requiring analyst or SME engagement. Pharmacy Master Mapping and Staging Pharmacy Mapping are database tables</div>" }
knitr::include_graphics("figures/pharmacy_mapping/overall_design.png", dpi = 200)
```

## Setup

### Libraries and Database
```{r, eval = F}
library(GEMINIpkg)
library(RPostgreSQL)
library(dplyr)
library(getPass)
library(readxl)
library(data.table)

## Connect to the DB that stores the Pharmacy Data Table
db_con <- DBI::dbConnect(
  DBI::dbDriver("PostgreSQL"),

>   dbname = "drm_cleandb_v3_1_0",

Reviewer: Would keep this a bit more general, as the names are different for H4H DBs
```suggestion
  dbname = "<dbname>",
```

>   host = "prime.smh.gemini-hpc.ca",

Reviewer: Would use placeholders for these as well like we do in the code examples in the roxygen (because these are different for H4H DBs):
```suggestion
  dbname = "database_name", # For H4H users: template DB
  host = "domain_name.ca",
```

  password = getPass::getPass("Database password: ")
)
```

<br><details>
<summary><span style='color:blue; font-size:13px; margin-top:10px;'>Note: Pharmacy master mapping tables are stored in a different database from the pharmacy data. Expand to see how to query them.</span></summary>

The pharmacy mapping files (`pharmacy_master_mapping`, `staging.working_pharmacy_mapping`) are stored in the `pharmacy_mapping` database. While most processes are automated such that analysts don't interact with these mapping files directly, knowing how to query them to explore existing mappings can be handy:
```{r, eval=F}
## Connect to the DB that stores the Pharmacy Master Mapping file
map_db_con <- DBI::dbConnect(
  DBI::dbDriver("PostgreSQL"),
  dbname = "pharmacy_mapping", # note this is a different DB
  host = "prime.smh.gemini-hpc.ca",
  port = 1234, # placeholder for real port number
  user = getPass::getPass("Database Username:"),
  password = getPass::getPass("Database password: ")
)

main <- dbGetQuery(map_db_con, "SELECT * FROM pharmacy_master_mapping;")
staging <- dbGetQuery(map_db_con, "SELECT * FROM staging.working_pharmacy_mapping;")
```

> </details>

Reviewer: I know I previously wanted to add this section here, but now that users have to connect to the master mapping table outside of the `prepare_pharm_for_validation` function, I would maybe just move this to the section below where that function is explained. That way, you can focus on `rxnorm_query` first (and the DB connection required for that), before explaining how users can prepare the query output for validation based on previously validated mappings.

        +  When `class_input` is used, the function internally converts the drug classes into a list of drug names and then queries based on the drug names. We recommand users to turn on `return_drug_list` when using `class_input`. This will output a list of drug names associating with the `class_input`, allowing users to confirm the list with an SME. 
    3.  Input both `drug_input` and `class_input`: Previously an **intersection** of these two independent searches (one based on `drug_input` and one based on `class_input`) will be used. In this version, a **union** of these two searches are used instead.

## Insulin example

```{r, eval = F}
rxnorm_res <- rxnorm_query(
  db_con = db_con, # DB contains the Pharmacy Data
  drug_input = c("insulin"),
  genc_ids = example_cohort
)

head(rxnorm_res %>%
  arrange(genc_id, row_num)) # some digits of encounter-level identifiers are hidden to protect privacy.
```

```{r, eval=F, echo=F}
# code to create figure below
rxnorm_res %>%
  arrange(genc_id, row_num) %>%
  head() %>%
  mutate(genc_id = convert_to_sequence(genc_id), row_num = paste0("...", substr(row_num, 6, 7)))
```

> ```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "80%", fig.align = "center"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "80%", fig.align = "center", fig.cap="Dummy output of `rxnorm_query()`."}
```

knitr::include_graphics("figures/pharmacy_mapping/rxnorm_query/fig1_insulin_simple_example.png", dpi = 100)
```

## Searching for combined drugs

The search for drugs commonly used in combination or drugs with mulitple active components is a bit more complex. There are 2 **complementary** strategies to search for combined drugs.

> 1. Search by the individual drug name or the individual active component name. Example 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Search by the individual drug names or the individual active component names. Example 1.
```

```{r, eval = F}
# Example 1 Trimethoprim and Sulfamethoxazole
rxnorm_res_ex1 <- rxnorm_query(
  db_con = db_con,
  drug_input = c("trimethoprim", "sulfamethoxazole"),
  genc_ids = example_cohort
)

rxnorm_res_ex1[grepl("\\|", rxnorm_match)] %>%
  arrange(genc_id, row_num) %>%
  head() # Last digits of encounter-level identifiers are hidden to protect privacy.
```

```{r, eval=F, echo=F}
# code to create figure below
rxnorm_res_ex1[grepl("\\|", rxnorm_match)] %>%
  arrange(genc_id, row_num) %>%
  head() %>%
  mutate(genc_id = convert_to_sequence(genc_id), row_num = paste0("...", substr(row_num, 6, 7)))
```

```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "80%", fig.align = "center"}
knitr::include_graphics("figures/pharmacy_mapping/rxnorm_query/fig2_trim_sulf.png", dpi = 200)
```

<hr style="border-top: 0.5px solid #ccc; margin: 20px 0;">

Example 2:

-  Drugs of interest: a brand name drug Complera.

-  This drug contains three active components: emtricitabine, rilpivirine, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.

-  This combination of the three active components is only available under the brand name 'Complera'.

> -  User should input c("complera") in `drug_input`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  User should input c("complera") in `drug_name`.
```

-  User can perform a second search on the individual ingrediants (see Example 1) to potentially find additional hits. For drugs like this one, which are available under one specific brand name, searching by individual components can be less sensitive than directly searching the brand name.

```{r, eval = F}
# Example 2 Complera
rxnorm_res_ex2 <- rxnorm_query(
  db_con = db_con,
  drug_input = c("complera"),
  genc_ids = example_cohort
)

> tail(rxnorm_res_ex2) # Last digits of encounter-level identifiers are hidden to protect privacy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tail(rxnorm_res_ex2)
```

```

```{r, eval=F, echo=F}
# code to create figure below
rxnorm_res_ex2 %>%
  tail() %>%
  mutate(genc_id = convert_to_sequence(genc_id), row_num = paste0("...", substr(row_num, 6, 7)))
```

```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "80%", fig.align = "center"}
knitr::include_graphics("figures/pharmacy_mapping/rxnorm_query/fig3_complera.png", dpi = 200)
```

## Important notes

> 1. If a user input more than one drugs in `drug_input` or enter a class `class_input`, under `rxnorm_match` a pipe "|" may appear to separate more than one drugs which indicates that each entry (cell) from the pharmacy table is found to link to these drugs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If a user inputs more than one search terms in `drug_name` or `drug_class`, `rxnorm_match` may contain a pipe "|". This indicates that a given entry (cell) from the pharmacy table was matched to multiple search terms, separated by the pipe. 
```

> 2. Only drugs entered into `drug_input` or drugs under `class_input` selected by users will appear under `rxnorm_match` output (even if the pharmacy entry may contain an additional drug, it will not appear as it wasn't searched for by the user).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Only drugs entered into `drug_name` or drugs under `drug_class` selected by users will appear under `rxnorm_match` output (even if the pharmacy entry may contain an additional drug, it will not appear as it wasn't searched for by the user).
```

3. Rxnorm is a US-based tool. Although this is highly uncommon, drugs that are only prescribed in Canada (and not in the US) cannot be found by RxNorm. In addition, the current `rxnorm_query` tool does not support searches based on Canadian brand names. Please use the equivalent American brand name or generic name instead.

4. If `rxnorm_query` returns a warning saying "drug could not be found", please check the [RxNav website](https://mor.nlm.nih.gov/RxNav/) as sometimes there may be alternative searchable drug names based on the suggestion from the search bar. For example, Paxlovid returns the same warning, but when entered into RxNav, an auto-completion in the search bar shows "paxlovid 150 mg /100 mg dose pack". In this case, user should input "paxlovid 150 mg /100 mg dose pack" into `drug_name`.

5. This function requires database or datacut prepared from version `drm_cleandb_v3_1_0` and newer. It is backward **incompatible** with database version before that, and `rxnorm_top_score` in the output has been deprecated.

*  *  *  *

# Using `prepare_pharm_for_validation`

> **RxNorm is not a perfect tool and may generate false-positive matches. A typical workflow we recommend is consulting a SME to validate the results.** This could be physician, pharmacist, or anybody with knowledge of medication. They can ensure that the pharmacy records identified by RxNorm are indeed accurate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**RxNorm is not a perfect tool and may generate false-positive matches. A typical workflow we recommend is consulting a SME to validate the results.** This could be a physician, pharmacist, or anybody with knowledge of medication. They can ensure that the pharmacy records identified by RxNorm are indeed accurate.
```

3 key advantages of using this function:

- It compares the RxNorm results against previously validated mappings in the Pharmacy Master Mapping file, flagging matches that had already been validated before by other projects. This allows SMEs to focus primarily on new matches, streamlining the validation process.

- Pharmacy data includes multiple fields containing drug information, which can contain redundant or inconsistent drug information for the same pharmacy order. The function provides a standardized way to handle these issues by applying hierarchical rules to prioritize matches from certain fields over others. The hierarchical rules are predefined by GEMINI SMEs.

- It performs small cell suppression on data associated with less than 6 encounters to protect privacy.

## Key parameters

1. **`pharm_dbcon`**: Database connection to the master pharmacy mapping file.
2. **`rxnorm_res`**: Object returned by `rxnorm_query`.
3. **`hierarchy`**: Flag whether to apply the predefined hierarchy filters to retain only highest-priority drug information per pharmacy row.

> 4. **`cell_suppression`**: Flag whether to apply small cell suppression to the outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **`cell_suppression`**: Flag indicating whether to apply small cell suppression to the outputs.
```

  host = "prime.smh.gemini-hpc.ca",
  port = 1234, # placeholder for real port number
  user = getPass::getPass("Database Username:"),
  password = getPass::getPass("Database password: ")
)

prep_res <- prepare_pharm_for_validation(
  pharm_dbcon = pharm_db,
  rxnorm_res = rxnorm_res,
  hierarchy = T,
  cell_suppression = T,
  outpath = "path/to/output/folder/"
)
```

<br>The returned object **`prep_res` is a list containing 2 data tables** named 'sme' and 'analyst':

<br>**$sme** is the frequency table to be shared with the SME for validation:
```{r, eval = F}
prep_res$sme[c(1:5, 40:45), ]
```

```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "100%", fig.align = "center", fig.cap="" }
knitr::include_graphics("figures/pharmacy_mapping/prepare_pharm_for_validation/fig2_freqtab_sme.png", dpi = 200)
```

<details style="font-size: 13px;">
<summary><span style='color:blue; font-size:13px; margin-left: 20px;'>Expand to understand the table</span></summary>

- **`row_id`**: a unique identifier for each row of the table. It helps analysts to track entries in case of accidental row deletions during the validation process.

> - **`count`**: number of unique genc_ids associating with each row. With cell_suppression = T, small counts less than 6 encounters are suppressed to "<6".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`count`**: number of unique genc_ids associated with each row. With cell_suppression = T, small counts less than 6 encounters are suppressed to "<6".
```

```{r, eval=F}
prep_res$analyst[c(1:5), ]
```

```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "100%", fig.align = "center", fig.cap="" }
knitr::include_graphics("figures/pharmacy_mapping/prepare_pharm_for_validation/fig3_freqtab_ana.png", dpi = 200)
```

- Same table as prep_res$sme, with one additional column: `pharm_row_num`. 
- **`pharm_row_num` is a LIST storing `row_num`** - a unique identifier for each row of the pharmacy table. Analysts will need these values to retrieve encounter-level data from the pharmacy table after SME-validation. See [*Guidelines for post-validation*](#section-post-valid). Since `pharm_row_num` contains encounter-level data, use of this table is restricted within the secure HPC environment (e.g. NORA, HPC4Health). **Egress Outside The HPC Environment is Not Permitted**. For illustration purposes of this vignette, the last digits of `pharm_row_num` are hidden.

### SME validation

When the user specifies a folder path to `outpath`, a file named `pharmacy_mapping_for_SME.xlsx` is exported to the corresponding folder. This file is the frequency table in `prep_res$sme` in the user's GlobalEnv. It is intended for sharing with the SME for validation.

> To share this aggregated data file with the SME, analysts must submit a file transfer request for GEMINI review. **Only approved files may be exported and shared**.

Reviewer: Could we remove this? It doesn't really apply to H4H users because they can directly egress this via GitLab (but I think it might get confusing if we mention that here...).

Analyst should clearly explain to the SME how to use this table to conduct validation, following the key guidelines:

  1. Columns highlighted in <span style="background-color: yellow;">yellow</span>: 'SME_confirm', 'SME_comment' should be filled out by the SME.
<div style="padding-left: 40px;">
```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "100%", fig.align = "center", fig.cap="" }
knitr::include_graphics("figures/pharmacy_mapping/prepare_pharm_for_validation/fig4_sme_valid_example_pre.png", dpi = 200)
```
</div>

  2. *SME_confirm* should be a logical value of TRUE or FALSE. Input TRUE to indicate that the SME verifies that `raw_input` matches `rxnorm_match` (i.e. information in <span style="background-color: #ae8dda;">purple-highlighted columns</span> are correct), otherwise FALSE. For simplicity, you could instruct the SME to enter 'T' for correct matches and leave cells empty otherwise, then you could fill out the missing entries with 'F'.

> 

Reviewer: Should we also mention here what the SME should do in cases where multiple matches were returned with a pipe, but only one of the matches is correct?

Recall the goal of the Insluin study - determine the proportion of encounters had an order for 'insulin' during their hospital stay. 

Now, the SME has confirmed drug entries corresponding to 'insulin', and also indicated a few drug entries to be excluded from the study (despite correct rxnorm match), the next steps are to identify a list of encounters with drug entries matching these criteria.

**Steps to identify encounters prescribed with 'insulin' of interest to the study:**

<p style="padding-left: 35px; margin-top:20px;">**STEP 1.** Load the prepared pharmacy R object.</p>

<div style="padding-left: 40px; font-size:13px"> Since the analyst specified a folder path to `outpath` when running `prepare_pharm_for_validation(...)`, an R object named `pharm_res_INTERNAL_USE_ONLY.rds` was saved to folder upon running `prepare_pharm_for_validation`. This R object is equivalent to `prep_res`. The R object offers a convenient way for analyst to resume analysis after SME validation without the need to re-run the time-consuming steps `rxnorm-query()` & `prepare_pharm_for_validation()`:</div>

<div style="padding-left: 40px">
```{r, eval=F}

> saved_robject <- readRDS(file.path("path/to/output/folder/pharm_res_INTERNAL_USE_ONLY.rds"))

Reviewer: Sorry I'm just remembering this now: Do you think it would be helpful to automatically add the date to the output files in `prepare_pharm_for_validation`? If users ever re-run RxNorm (e.g., to add other drugs), it's easy to accidentally overwrite previous files, especially the analyst one because that may not be used immediately (happened to Sophia...). Adding the date to file names might help with that a little bit. If you agree this would be helpful, we can just add that small change on `develop` (probably no need to update the examples in the vignette; just add it to `prepare_pharm_for_validation`).

Reviewer: Totally agree! I do think adding the date would help at least a little bit and can potentially avoid some frustration if analysts do accidentally overwrite things. I'll make that small change and push it to `develop`.

insulin_row_id <- insulin$row_id

insulin_pharm_row_num <- saved_robject$analyst %>%
  filter(row_id %in% insulin_row_id) %>%
  pull(pharm_row_num) %>% # note that `pharm_row_num` is stored as list
  unlist() # unlist to covert to vector

insulin_pharm_row_num[1:5] # mock example of row numbers
# [1] "54781..." "54781..." "54781..." "54786..." "54786..."
```
</div>

<p style="padding-left: 35px; margin-top:20px;">**STEP 3.** Identify encounters (`genc_id`) corresponding to the pharmacy orders.</p>

  <div style="padding-left: 40px; font-size:13px">**$pharm_row_num** values (e.g. 54781.., 54786..) correspond to **row_num** of the pharmacy table, which is the unique identifier for *each pharmacy row*. Therefore, analysts can use them to trace each entry back to the original pharmacy table to identify genc_ids with **at least one insulin order throughout hospitalization**:</div>

<div style="padding-left: 40px">
```{r, eval=F}
# Send a list of row_num as a temp table in case the number of row_num is very long,
# since dbGetQuery has a character limit.

insulin_pharm_row_num <- data.table(row_num = insulin_pharm_row_num) # ensure it's data.frame

> dbWritetable(db_con, c("pg_temp", "temp_row_num"), insulin_pharm_row_num,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbWriteTable(db_con, c("pg_temp", "temp_row_num"), insulin_pharm_row_num,
```

  temporary = T, row.names = F
) # write the row_num into a temp table

query <- paste0("SELECT p.*
                 FROM pharmacy p
                 INNER JOIN temp_row_num t on t.row_num=p.row_num;")
pharm_tab <- dbGetQuery(db_con, query) # pull pharm rows containing validated drugs

#### alternative query (less efficient), if you don't have write access to create temp table in db_con
# query <- paste0("SELECT row_num, genc_id
#                  FROM pharmacy

> #                  WHERE row_num IN (", paste(insulin_pharm_row_num, collapse=", "), ");")

Reviewer: Could remove this to shorten this part a bit. H4H users can write temp tables and that's definitely more efficient on H4H (resources are even more limited on H4H compared to NORA, so let's just recommend the preferred way).

# code to generate result figure below
rxnorm_res %>%
  filter(row_num == 1695237) %>%
  mutate(
    genc_id = "fake_id 1", # for purpose of the vignette, hide last digits of genc_id to protect privacy
    row_num = paste0("...", substr(row_num, 6, 7)) # for purpose of the vignette, hide last digits of row_num to protect privacy
  )
```

```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "80%", fig.align = "center", fig.cap="" }
knitr::include_graphics("figures/pharmacy_mapping/prepare_pharm_for_validation/fig8_nohier_example.png", dpi = 200)
```

```
- For this order, the columns `med_id_generic_name_raw`, `med_id_brand_name_raw`, and `med_id_din` each contain drug information, all of which are matched to "insulin" by RxNorm. When `hierarchy=T`, only the row with "med_id_generic_name_raw = insulin regular 100 unit/mL vial (1,000 unit/10 mL)" is included in the result frequency table, while other rows are dropped, ensuring a one-to-one match. When `hierarchy=F` all rows will be included, therefore, the redundant information "med_id_din = 00586714" and "med_id_brand_name_raw = Novolin Toronto ; Humulin R" are returned and contribute to the frequency count.
```

### Unmatched results

> Recall that with **return_unmatched=TRUE** in the previous `rxnorm_res <- rxnorm_query(...)` function, the returned object contains 2 items - matched and unmatched results. When `rxnorm_res` contains unmatched result, **`prepare_pharm_for_validation` will automatically detect its presence, and process them along with the matched result to facilitate SME validation.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recall that with **return_unmatched=TRUE** in the previous `rxnorm_res <- rxnorm_query(...)` function, the returned object contains 2 items - matched and unmatched results. When `rxnorm_res` contains unmatched results, **`prepare_pharm_for_validation` will automatically  process them along with the matched results to facilitate SME validation.**
```

```{r, eval=F}
rxnorm_res_unmatch <- rxnorm_query(
  db_con = db_con,
  drug_input = c("insulin"),
  genc_ids = example_cohort,
  return_unmatched = T
)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rxnorm_res_unmatch <- rxnorm_query(
  dbcon = db_con,
  drug_name = c("insulin"),
  cohort = example_cohort,
  return_unmatched = T
)

```

```{r eval=F}
## Run rxnorm as usual
rxnorm_res <- rxnorm_query(
  db_con = db_con,
  drug_input = c("insulin"),
  genc_ids = example_cohort
)

## Prepare frequency table for drug(s) of interest as usual
prep_res <- prepare_pharm_for_validation(
  pharm_dbcon = pharm_db,
  rxnorm_res = rxnorm_res,
  hierarchy = T,
  cell_suppression = T
)

## Extract pharmacy data corresponding to insulin
##  (for the purpose of illustration, we assume all matches in rxnorm_res are confirmed by SME)
insulin_pharm_row_num <- prep_res$analyst %>%
  pull(pharm_row_num) %>%
  unlist()

## Generate frequency table for routes corresponding to insulin, and share with SME
route_query <- paste0(
  "SELECT genc_id, route
    FROM pharmacy
    WHERE row_num IN (", paste(insulin_pharm_row_num, collapse = ", "), # filter to rows with validated drugs
  ");"
)

freqtab_route <- dbGetQuery(db_con, route_query) %>%
  mutate(route = tolower(route)) %>% # minimal standardization, analysts should clean up the raw values as needed
  group_by(route) %>%
  summarise(n = length(unique(genc_id))) %>%
  arrange(-n) %>%
  mutate(
    row_id = 1:length(route),

>     SME_confirm = NA # to be filled out by SME

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SME_confirm = NA, # to be filled out by SME
    n = ifelse(n < 6, "suppressed (n < 6)", n) # apply cell suppression
```

    + In some cases, `rxnorm_match` may contains multiple matches separated by a pipe (e.g. "cefuroxime | vancomycin"). If the SME confirms only one or some of the matches, the analyst **should edit `rxnorm_match` to retain only the confirmed entries**.
    + The column *drug_group* should be included if the SME has filled it out. If not, this column can be left empty for now, however, analysts will eventually need to reach out to GEMINI's internal SME for filling out this column upon running (see [*Using add_validated_pharm_map*](#section-db-upload)).
    + If *unmatched rows* are examined and false negative entries are found, the analyst should extract and add these mappings to the final mapping file. To differentiate these manually identified entries from those mapped by RxNorm, a **prefix "manual_"** should be added to the mapped drugs. See 'False negatives' below for details.
    + Save the formatted final mapping as a **.csv (required format) file** to folder.

2. **For HPC4Health users**:
    + Notify GEMINI team when a new validated mapping is ready for upload and provide location of the formatted file.

>     + The GEMINI team will assist with integrating the mapping to the master pharmacy mapping database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + Please submit your validated and formatted mapping file to support@gemini-hpc.ca. The GEMINI team will then integrate your mappings to the master pharmacy mapping database.
```

<details>
<summary><span style='color:blue; font-size:13px; margin-left: 20px;'>Expand to see important note about drug_group for analysts</span></summary>
```
Classifying drugs into groups is not always neccessary for individual research projects, so project-SMEs are not required to fill out `drug_group`. 
However, high-level drug classification can often be beneficial for various research purposes. Therefore, filling out `drug_group` is required for mappings added to GEMINI's Pharmacy Master Mapping table and can be performed by GEMINI's internal SMEs. As there is no single "best" way to systemetically classify drugs, analysts are **not expected** to fill out the `drug_group` themselves. Instead, they should use the `add_validated_pharm_map` function to extract existing classifications, and reach out to our SMEs to perform mapping for drugs that have not been previously grouped. This ensures that drugs are classified in a relatively consistent manner over time. See sections below for details.
```
</details>

> For new pharmacy mapping records that have passed the checks, the function will **appends them to the Staging Pharmacy Mapping table (`staging.working_pharmacy_mapping` in the database)**, along with the user's database `user_name`, `project_id`, and a timestamp (`last_updated`). The added user information allows tracking of records in case a reversion is necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For new pharmacy mapping records that have passed the checks, the function will **append them to the Staging Pharmacy Mapping table (`staging.working_pharmacy_mapping` in the database)**, along with the user's database `user_name`, `project_id`, and a timestamp (`last_updated`). The added user information allows tracking of records in case a revision is necessary.
```

Overall, the function prevents analysts from appending incorrect, incomplete, or duplicate mappings to the Pharmacy Mapping Master table. In conjunction with the feature to output unmapped `drug_group` for SME validation, the automated checking and appending process of `add_validated_pharm_map` provides analysts with both a more efficient and accurate way to grow the existing collection of pharmacy mappings.

## Key parameters

There is only one parameter in the function:

**`file_path`** - path for a .csv file containing the newly validated pharmacy mapping records.

**`NOTE`**:

- The csv file imported from the `file_path` parameter must meet the formatting requirements in [*Preparing SME-validated mappings for database integration*](#section-db-prep)

- There are implicit parameters users need to provide through prompts when running the function:

<div style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 40px; font-size:13px">
1. **`Username`**: the username of the analyst for their database connection.
2. **`Password`**: the password of the analyst for their database connection.

> 3. **`Project Title`**: the Abbreviated Title per GEMINI Project Tracker of the research project. If the mapping is not associated with a project on the tracker, the user should provide a brief name that describes the mapping activity, e.g. 'reports_sedhypno_indicator'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **`Project Title`**: the Abbreviated Title of the research project as per the GEMINI Project Tracker. If the mapping is not associated with a project on the tracker, the user should provide a brief name that describes the mapping activity, e.g. 'reports_sedhypno_indicator'.
```

4. **`CSV Output Prompt`**: if the value entered is `yes`, unmapped records without `drug_group`, will be exported to a csv file. If the value entered is anything else, the unmapped records will not be appended and instead returned to the user's R environment object.

> 5. **`CSV Output Path`**: if the user chooses to export unmapped records without `drug_group`, they must then enter path for the csv file which these records will export to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **`CSV Output Path`**: if the user chooses to export records without `drug_group`, they must then enter a path the csv file will be exported to.
```

```
</details>

<br> After all checks are passed, you will be prompted to enter your database Username, Password, and the Abbreviated Title of your project:

```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "80%", fig.align = "center", fig.cap="" }
knitr::include_graphics("figures/pharmacy_mapping/add_validated_pharm_map/fig3_user_name_prompt.png", dpi = 200)
```

<br> Next, the function checks if any to-be-appended records already exist in the Pharmacy Master Mapping file. Records with 2 or more copies of the same mapping will not be appended. These records will be printed in the console for user to review and acknowledge:
```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "100%", fig.align = "center", fig.cap="" }
knitr::include_graphics("figures/pharmacy_mapping/add_validated_pharm_map/fig4_duplicate_mapping_entries_message_and_user_acknowledgement.png", dpi = 200)
```

<br> Afterwards, the final set of new records that will be appended to the database is displayed in the Viewer for interactive review:
```{r, echo=FALSE, out.width = "100%", fig.align = "center", fig.cap="" }
knitr::include_graphics("figures/pharmacy_mapping/add_validated_pharm_map/fig5_viewer_of_rows_to_be_appended.png", dpi = 200)

> ```

Reviewer: I think we can remove this too. It'll be obvious to users as they go through the process.
